---
layout: post
title:  "Here We go!"
date:   2016-05-24 19:00:00 -0600
cover_photo: here-we-go.jpg
summary: I'm not trying to rack up pageviews, build a following or monetize anything. My goal is simple - to explore new technologies and spend some time writing about them. Once a week.
---
Well, I'm finally live. It's been quite a while in the making, but I've been promising myself for too long that I would put together an outlet for my desires to explore more new technology and spend more time writing. I'm not trying to rack up pageviews, build a following or monetize anything. My goal is simple - to explore new technologies and spend some time writing about them. Once a week. That will be a challenge, but I think I'm for it. My brain could definitely use the exercise.

The project begins with the build of this website. I've been wanting to check out Jekyll for some time now and this seemed like the perfect opportunity. I love the idea of a site that is simple to deploy, easy to optimize and maintained entirely in a git repo. In the coming weeks, I'll be writing about specific features of Jekyll I've enjoyed using, as well as some helpful tools I've used to make this thing a reality.

On top of weekly entries, I'll be continuing to improve this site. It's obviously pretty bare bones right now, but, hey, M.V.P, am I right? All of my code is available as a public repo on Github - [check it out][site-repo]! Features additions, updates and bugs I'm tracking will all be maintained using Github issues. Submit an issue if you find something wrong - I always appreciate feedback.

[site-repo]: https://github.com/nswitzer/1aw